---
layout: page
title: About
---

This project is the capstone part of a capstone/thesis for the Master of Arts in Digital Humanities at The Graduate Center - CUNY. It grew out of conversations in the Introduction to Digital Humanities course I took in Fall 2018, about how digital humanities had shifted from seeing itself in its early days as a big tent[^1] to becoming an expanded field[^2] and then allying itself with social justice advocates, activists, organizers, and others to help bring about much-needed change.[^3]  

[^1]: see Patrick Svensson, "Beyond the Big Tent." Debates in the Digital Humanities 2012. Chapter 4. <a href="https://dhdebates.gc.cuny.edu/read/untitled-88c11800-9446-469b-a3be-3fdb36bfbd1e/section/38531431-5bd6-4eb1-95f5-fa49c025322d">dhdebates.gc.cuny.edu/read/untitled-88c11800-9446-469b-a3be-3fdb36bfbd1e/section/38531431-5bd6-4eb1-95f5-fa49c025322d</a>

[^2]: see Matthew K. Gold and Lauren F. Klein, "Digital Humanities: The Expanded Field." Debates in the Digital Humanities 2016. Introduction.<a href="https://dhdebates.gc.cuny.edu/read/untitled/section/14b686b2-bdda-417f-b603-96ae8fbbfd0f#intro/">dhdebates.gc.cuny.edu/read/untitled/section/14b686b2-bdda-417f-b603-96ae8fbbfd0f#intro</a>

[^3]: see Matthew K. Gold and Lauren F. Klein, "A DH That Matters." Debates in the Digital Humanities 2019. Introduction.<a href="https://dhdebates.gc.cuny.edu/read/untitled-f2acf72c-a469-49d8-be35-67f9ac1e3a60/section/0cd11777-7d1b-4f2c-8fdf-4704e827c2c2#intro/">dhdebates.gc.cuny.edu/read/untitled-f2acf72c-a469-49d8-be35-67f9ac1e3a60/section/0cd11777-7d1b-4f2c-8fdf-4704e827c2c2#intro/</a>  

As I learned new skills that gave me a lot of freedom to explore connections between different academic fields and public spheres, I became increasingly aware that digital humanities work was blurring and breaking traditional boundaries between these and upheaving old hierarchies as it interrogated opaque systems and made room for new voices to enter the fray. Excited by the impact of the work many digital humanists were doing and its potential to bring about real change, I wanted to help further enrich the field by sharing the tools I was learning with groups these were not handed to.

At the time, I was tutoring in a federal prison in New York City, where I was struck by the complete absence of digital technologies used to pursue educational goals. I saw that on one hand digital literacy would be super important to students when they left prison and set out to seek jobs. In addition to this, I found that going into the back end of a computer and telling it what to do - instead of being scared that I would break the damn thing - so mesmerizing, fun and empowering that I wanted to share what I was learning with my students and employ these practices in prison as pedagogical tools. When we have fun, we engage and we learn. There was no doubt in my mind that the freedom and freshness of digital humanities theory and practice would appeal to incarcerated students. The question was never why, only how.

Minimal computing work done by digital humanists provided the answer to this question. Minimal computing is an emerging conversation in digital humanities about the need for computing solutions in parts of the world with little or no internet connectivity and limited access to digital technologies. This lack of access as well as the steep learning curve it engenders excludes a huge part of the world population from participation in digital work. The goal of minimal computing is to seek ways to use computers under significant constraints of hardware, software, connectivity, education, network capacity, power, or other factors in order to increase access and include otherwise excluded people in digital scholarship and digital work.  Minimal computing’s search for solutions revolves around the central question of what is needed and explores how to meet these needs at minimal cost. It aims to be sustainable, reasonably easy to program and able to preserve digital work at low cost and independently. To my excitement, I found that these goals exactly met this project's needs.

This site is built with <a href="http://elotroalex.github.io/ed//">Ed.</a>, a <a href="https://jekyllrb.com/">Jekyll</a> theme. To use Ed. (and for instructions on cloning a site built with Ed.) follow the installation steps described in its
[documentation page](http://minicomp.github.io/ed/documentation).

<a href="http://go-dh.github.io/mincomp/">minimal computing principles</a>, and focused on legibility, durability, ease and flexibility. You are free to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of this site. If you are interested in using the framework rather than the content of this site, consider setting it up directly from <a href="http://elotroalex.github.io/ed//">Ed.</a>, which has excellent documentation and is what I used to build this site.

You are free to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of my work published on this site. Work by others published on this site may have different licences and copyrights, as clearly indicated on its page. If you are interested in using the framework rather than the content of this site, consider setting it up directly from <a href="http://elotroalex.github.io/ed//">Ed.</a>, which has excellent documentation and is what I used to build this site. If you would like to contribute to this project and/or are interested in collaborating with me in the next stage of the project (maybe look for a grant?) please write to me or write to dhinprison@gmail.com.  

---
