---
layout: narrative
title: Abstract
author:
editor: Sabina Pringle
source: Capstone project, MA in Digital Humanities, The Graduate Center - CUNY
---
This paper proposes to develop an undergraduate college-level course in digital humanities to be taught in prison in the United States. At present, no digital humanities course is taught in any prison college program, partly because prison restrictions on the use of technology make digital courses complicated to teach. The solution this paper proposes is to work with minimal computing methods in order to set up and maintain a digital classroom under prison-specific constraints of hardware, software, connectivity and cost, as well as to develop digital literacy and digital content resources. With a fairly simple computer network and without an internet connection, incarcerated students can learn digital skills as well as tools and methods for exploring humanities subjects in a first introductory course. Subsequent courses could focus on specific areas of expertise such as software development, mapping, data visualization, artificial intelligence, text mining, and UX design. Students may also be interested in developing minimal computing projects for use in communities that have shaky (or no) internet connections and other constraints (such as economic constraints) in other parts of the world. An assessment of reading lists from a representative sample of prison college programs in New York State suggests that students will have no trouble reading digital humanities theory and engaging in its praxis. The purposes of the pedagogical initiative this thesis outlines are to empower incarcerated students by giving them tools to perform and publish humanities research, create digital artifacts, and teaching them digital skills including but not limited to proficiency in the command line, HTML and CSS and Python, that will be of use to them in finding employment when they are released from prison. 
